Adding TAC and SCIR election process description and timeline (#139)
ossf/tac: elections/tac-and-scir-election-process.md

# TAC and SCIR Election Procedures

This document outlines the election process for the OpenSSF Technical Advisory Council (TAC) and Security Community Individual Representative (SCIR).

## Voter Eligibility (Electorate) Self-Nomination Process

Any contributor to OpenSSF working groups, SIGs or projects is eligible to participate in the election.
Valid contributions include: commits or submitted pull requests via Github; public edits or comments on Google docs or other work products associated with OpenSSF; posting messages to any mailing list or on Slack; and beyond that any other form of positive engagement with OpenSSF activities.

> The form asks you for an example of your contributions; this is merely to make it easier for the Election Officials and OpenSSF staff to validate eligability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The voter eligibility form asks you for an example of your contributions; this is merely to make it easier for the Election Officials and OpenSSF staff to validate eligability.
```

If you have in any way been involved in or care about OpenSSF, but are in doubt as to whether your contribution “counts”, please fill it out anyways, and we will follow up.

[Voter Eligibility Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSegUTOrxrGPVwDrPH9RARmYxX5YEkW3j67RU4uWABkKD5x8og/viewform)

 
## TAC Self-Nomination Process

The OpenSSF Technical Advisory Council (TAC) is composed of seven total individuals, four of whom are elected annually.

> Eligable community members, according to the criteria defined above, can self-nominate using the form below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eligible community members, according to the same criteria defined above for voter eligibility, can self-nominate using the form below.
```

[TAC Candidate Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxUbbfJGgjU_cZ_uGvUm-5ePoXu7q2pGiNyH2G8euwpn23Sw/viewform)

## SCIR Self-Nomination Information and Process

Since early in its existence, the OpenSSF Governing Board has sought to ensure it gets adequate input from voices in the software security community who would otherwise not be at the table.
We seek candidates for the Security Community Individual Representative (SCIR) who can represent those voices, while also being a subject matter expert in the field with their own set of perspectives.
Familiarity with the different OpenSSF working groups and projects, and being able to dedicate the time to be sufficiently informed on the issues that arise in our monthly calls and ongoing discussions, is highly desired.

> It is also highly desired, but not required, that the SCIR be a contributor and thus eligible to vote in the election.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also highly desired, but not required, that the SCIR be an eligible OpenSSF community member by the criteria defined above.
```

[SCIR Candidate Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScoabVVjW1kvTNcKXhTEdvxQd13Caql-I36MOixHVO1dLwIiQ/viewform)

## Election Process

The Election Process will be monitored by Election Officials, who
* review nominees and confirm their eligibility,
* approve the election timeline, and
* review the ballot request form and validate voter eligibility.

Election Officials are eligable community members who are not running for a TAC or SCIR position, but may cast a vote.

During the validation period, the Election Officials will review the pool of eligible voters to confirm eligibility to participate in the election, per the guidelines defined above.

> At the conclusion of the validation period, Election Officials will publish the complete list of candidates.

Author: Good point. As during last year's election, the list of candidates should be published in this directory of this repo.

I don't mind publishing the list of eligable voters (just their names) as well.

In case a ballot requestor is considered not eligible, the Election Officials should notify this person.

> At the conclusion of the validation period, Election Officials will publish the complete list of candidates.

Reviewer: Updated to reflect 👍

> If there are more nominees than positions for either the TAC or the SCIR, the election will be conducted using the electronic voting tool Opavote.

Author: Do you mean we should just refer to an electronic voting tool in general like so:

```suggestion
If there are more nominees than positions for either the TAC or the SCIR, the election will be conducted using an electronic voting tool.
```

> A Single Transferable Voting method will be used for the TAC as there are multiple candidates. 

Author: I agree and would like to include this. Could you please fix this small typo first:

 [...] method will be used vote vote for TAC members as [...] -> [...] method will be used to vote for TAC members as [...]

> A Single Transferable Voting method will be used for the TAC as there are multiple candidates. 

Reviewer: Updated, eyes crossing

# TAC and SCIR Election Procedures

This document outlines the election process for the OpenSSF Technical Advisory Council (TAC) and Security Community Individual Representative (SCIR).

## Voter Eligibility (Electorate) Self-Nomination Process

Any contributor to OpenSSF working groups, SIGs, or projects is eligible to participate in the election.
Valid contributions include: commits or submitted pull requests via Github; public edits or comments on Google docs or other work products associated with OpenSSF; consistent participation in working groups; posting messages to any mailing list or on Slack; and beyond that any other form of positive engagement with OpenSSF activities.
The voter eligibility form asks you for an example of your contributions; this is merely to make it easier for the Election Officials and OpenSSF staff to validate eligibility.
If you have in any way been involved in or care about OpenSSF, but are in doubt as to whether your contribution “counts”, please fill it out anyways, and we will follow up.

> [Voter Eligibility Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSegUTOrxrGPVwDrPH9RARmYxX5YEkW3j67RU4uWABkKD5x8og/viewform)

Author: Good point. I will add that.

> [Voter Eligibility Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSegUTOrxrGPVwDrPH9RARmYxX5YEkW3j67RU4uWABkKD5x8og/viewform)

Author: Added to the document in https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/139/commits/610404dae557b3ec62af8f64bfde5aa4adb0fa77

> [Voter Eligibility Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSegUTOrxrGPVwDrPH9RARmYxX5YEkW3j67RU4uWABkKD5x8og/viewform)

Reviewer 2: @gkunz @bennyvasquez done!

> [Voter Eligibility Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSegUTOrxrGPVwDrPH9RARmYxX5YEkW3j67RU4uWABkKD5x8og/viewform)

Author: Thank you @jorydotcom. Resolving this conversation.

 
## TAC Self-Nomination Process

The OpenSSF Technical Advisory Council (TAC) is composed of seven total individuals, four of whom are elected annually.
Eligible community members, according to the same criteria defined above for voter eligibility, can self-nominate using the form below.

[TAC Candidate Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxUbbfJGgjU_cZ_uGvUm-5ePoXu7q2pGiNyH2G8euwpn23Sw/viewform)

## SCIR Self-Nomination Information and Process

Since early in its existence, the OpenSSF Governing Board has sought to ensure it gets adequate input from voices in the software security community who would otherwise not be at the table.
We seek candidates for the Security Community Individual Representative (SCIR) who can represent those voices, while also being a subject matter expert in the field with their own set of perspectives.
Familiarity with the different OpenSSF working groups and projects, and being able to dedicate the time to be sufficiently informed on the issues that arise in our monthly calls and ongoing discussions, is highly desired.

> It is also highly desired, but not required, that the SCIR be an eligible OpenSSF community member by the criteria defined above.

Reviewer 2: + @brianbehlendorf to weigh in. I don't think this section accurately captures what we're looking for. SCIR was meant to provide perspectives and insights from Security Experts in communities that we don't typically reach. IIRC, the concern initially was that OpenSSF may not have line of sight into tools, processes, ideas, etc that other security communities develop, and this SCIR role would help us find ways to build bridges across to those worlds.

Reviewer 3: This is fine.

[SCIR Candidate Self-Nomination Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScoabVVjW1kvTNcKXhTEdvxQd13Caql-I36MOixHVO1dLwIiQ/viewform)

## Election Process

The Election Process will be monitored by Election Officials, who
* review nominees and confirm their eligibility,
* approve the election timeline, and
* review the ballot request form and validate voter eligibility.

> Election Officials are eligible community members who have volunteered to oversee and help ensure the integrity of the election process. By volunteering in this role, they recuse themselves from running for a TAC or SCIR position but they still are allowed to vote in the election.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Election Officials are active OpenSSF community members who have volunteered to oversee and ensure the integrity of the election process. By volunteering in this role, they recuse themselves from running for a TAC or SCIR position but they still are allowed to vote in the election.
```

Author: Are we ok to switch from "eligible" to "active" here? It would be consistent to reuse the same criteria and wording for the Election Officials as for the other roles - otherwise we need to define "active" as well.

Candidates for each election will be reviewed by the Election Officials to ensure their eligibility per the guidelines above. At the end of the validation period, the complete list of candidates will be published in this repo.

> Similarly, the pool of eligible voters will be reviewed by Election Officials to ensure that all voters meet the eligibility criteria established above If a ballot requester is considered ineligible, an Election Official will follow up directly with the individual.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Similarly, the pool of eligible voters will be reviewed by Election Officials to ensure that all voters meet the eligibility criteria established above. If a ballot requester is considered ineligible, the requester will be notified directly by one of the Election Officials.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the number of nominees dose not meet the minimum number of nominees needed to fill the open positions, ...
```

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure what would happen in this instance, but it should be defined. @jorydotcom or @brianbehlendorf do you know if this has already been established somewhere and I missed it?

Reviewer 2: @bennyvasquez in that case, we would appoint the nominees and open a second nomination process to fill the remaining roles. If we had 4 eligible nominees and 4 open positions, then those individuals would be elected unopposed.

Author: @bennyvasquez, @jorydotcom: I included some wording for this in the latest commit https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/139/commits/19c8f811bf8823582aa08d722bc540d36c16b631

If there are more nominees than positions for either the TAC or the SCIR, the election will be conducted using an electronic voting tool.
The [Single Transferable Vote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_transferable_vote) method will be used to vote for TAC members as there are multiple candidates for multiple positions.
Eligible voters will receive an invitation to access their ballot from Opavote.
The ballot will include the option to vote for both the TAC and SCIR.

Questions related to the nomination and/or election process should be directed to [operations@openssf.org](mailto:operations@openssf.org).

> ## 2023 Election Timeline

Reviewer 2: To avoid letting this get out of date, perhaps we call this section "Standard Election Timeline" and use the 2023 dates by way of example. So next year we can post a timeline that suits how the calendar falls without it being something we have to remember to update here. Just a thought.

Author: Yes, this is an option, too. My original thinking was to actually use this file to publish the timelines every year, i.e., in 2024 we would add a new section, but I am not overly opinionated about this. We can just keep this as a reference so that we know how much time we want to allocate to each period.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I'd like to see this be something that is adopted, and then used over time, so shifting this to a standard timeline is best.

Reviewer 2: I think we all have seen, from experience, this kind of info to go stale. I like the pattern of adopting a standard timeline where we are committing to the number of days in each phase (nominations are open for 14 business days, say) - and we can use the public calendar as well to make sure it's noted when the TAC should be kicking off an election process on an annual basis

Author: ok, good for me. I'll update the text accordingly.

> ## 2023 Election Timeline

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Standard Election Timeline
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

The timeline in a standard election will follow the below format:

10 months after the previous election, an election committee will be established by ...(a member of staff? a call for volunteers to $mailinglist?). The volunteers have two weeks to begin the election process.

- Voter Ballot Request Period, and TAC and SCIR Self-Nomination Period - 2 weeks (concurrently)
- Validation Period - 1 Week
- Voting Period - 2 Weeks
- Announcement of results - Day after the conclusion of the Voting Period

```

Author: Sounds good to me - including the proposals in parenthesis.

> The overall timeline for the 2023 election is as follows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, the overall timeline for the 2023 election is as follows:
```

The ballot will include the option to vote for both the TAC and SCIR.

If the number of eligible nominees is less then the number of open positions, then all eligigle nominees will be appointed and a second nomination phase for filling the remaining positions will be opened.
If the number of eligible nominees equals the number of open positions, then those nominees will be elected unopposed.

Questions related to the nomination and/or election process should be directed to [operations@openssf.org](mailto:operations@openssf.org).

## Standard Election Timeline

The timeline in a standard election will follow the below format:

10 months after the previous election, an election committee will be established by ...(a member of staff? a call for volunteers to $mailinglist?). The volunteers have two weeks to begin the election process.

- Voter Ballot Request Period, and TAC and SCIR Self-Nomination Period - 2 weeks (concurrently)
- Validation Period - 1 Week
- Voting Period - 2 Weeks
- Announcement of results - Day after the conclusion of the Voting Period

For example, the overall timeline for the 2023 election is as follows:

> * Begin of overall election process: February 21

Reviewer 5: do we need to bump these dates back a degree (with the 21st being today)
